<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_74_T48_50216432135">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-74</ph> VA Notice of Total Set-Aside for Verified Veteran-Owned Small Businesses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.7011, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">VA Notice of Total Set-Aside for Verified Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> For the Department of Veterans Affairs, “<i>Veteran-owned small business or VOSB”:</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Means a small business concern - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more Veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more Veteran(s);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more Veteran(s);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The business meets Federal small business size standards for the applicable North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code identified in the solicitation document;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The business has been verified for ownership and control pursuant to 38 CFR part 74 and is listed in VA's Vendor Information Pages (VIP) database at: <i>https://www.vetbiz.va.gov/vip/;</i> and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) The business will comply with VAAR subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> and Small Business Administration (SBA) regulations regarding small business size and government contracting programs at 13 CFR parts 121 and 125, provided that any requirement therein that applies to a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern or SDVO SBC, is to be construed to also apply to a VA verified and VIP-listed VOSB, unless otherwise stated in this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) The term VOSB includes VIP-listed service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSB).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) “<i>Veteran”</i> is defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The term “<i>small business concern”</i> has the meaning given that term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) The term “<i>small business concern owned and controlled by Veterans”</i> has the meaning given that term under section 3(q)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(3)), except that for a VA contract the firm must be listed in the VIP database (see paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this clause).
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>General.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Offers are solicited only from VIP-listed VOSBs, including VIP-listed SDVOSBs. Offers received from entities that are not VIP-listed at the time of offer shall not be considered.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any award resulting from this solicitation shall be made only to a VIP-listed VOSB who is eligible at the time of submission of offer(s) and at time of award.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The requirements in this clause apply to any contract, order or subcontract where the firm receives a benefit or preference from its designation as a VOSB, including set-asides, sole source awards, and evaluation preferences.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Representation.</i> Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(e), only VIP-listed VOSBs are considered eligible to receive award of a resulting contract. By submitting an offer, the prospective contractor represents that it is an eligible VOSB as defined in this clause, 38 CFR part 74, and VAAR subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Agreement.</i> When awarded a contract action, including orders under multiple-award contracts, a VOSB agrees that in the performance of the contract, the VOSB shall comply with requirements in VAAR subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> and SBA regulations on small business size and government contracting programs at 13 CFR parts 121 and 125, including the non-manufacturer rule and limitations on-subcontracting requirements in 13 CFR 121.406(b) and 125.6. Unless otherwise stated in this clause, any requirement in 13 CFR parts 121 and 125 that applies to an SDVO SBC, is to be construed to also apply to a VIP-listed VOSB. For the purpose of the limitations on subcontracting, only VIP-listed VOSB, (including independent contractors) is considered eligible and/or “similarly situated” (<i>i.e.,</i> a firm that has the same small business program status as the prime contractor). An otherwise eligible firm further agrees to comply with the required certification requirements in this solicitation (see 852.219-75 and/or 852.219-76 as applicable). These requirements are summarized as follows:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Services.</i> In the case of a contract for services (except construction), the VOSB prime contractor will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to the prime for contract performance to firms that are not VIP-listed VOSBs (excluding direct costs to the extent they are not the principal purpose of the acquisition and the SDVOSB/VOSB does not provide the service, such as airline travel, cloud computing services, or mass media purchases). When a contract includes both services and supplies, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the service portion of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Supplies/products.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			In the case of a contract for supplies or products (other than from a non-manufacturer of such supplies), the VOSB prime contractor will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to the prime for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to firms that are not VIP-listed VOSBs. When a contract includes both supply and services, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the supply portion of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) In the case of a contract for supplies from a non-manufacturer, the VOSB prime contractor will supply the product of a domestic small business manufacturer or processor, unless a waiver as described in 13 CFR 121.406(b)(5) has been granted. Refer to 13 CFR 125.6(a)(2)(ii) for guidance pertaining to multiple item procurements.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>General construction.</i> In the case of a contract for general construction, the VOSB prime contractor will not pay more than 85% of the amount paid by the government to the prime for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to firms that are not VIP-listed VOSBs.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Special trade construction contractors.</i> In the case of a contract for special trade contractors, no more than 75% of the amount paid by the government to the prime for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, may be paid to firms that are not VIP-listed VOSBs.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Subcontracting.</i> A VOSB must meet the NAICS size standard assigned by the prime contractor and be listed in VIP to count as similarly situated. Any work that a first tier VIP-listed VOSB subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the percent of subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. For supply or construction contracts, the cost of materials is excluded and not considered to be subcontracted. When a contract includes both services and supplies, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the portion of the contract with the preponderance of the expenditure upon which the assigned NAICS is based. For information and more specific requirements, refer to 13 CFR 125.6.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Required limitations on subcontracting compliance measurement period.</i> A VOSB shall comply with the limitations on subcontracting as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-1">[<i>Contracting Officer check as appropriate.</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">__By the end of the base term of the contract or order, and then by the end of each subsequent option period; or
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">__By the end of the performance period for each order issued under the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Joint ventures.</i> A joint venture may be considered eligible as a VOSB if the joint venture is listed in VIP and complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 125.18(b), provided that any requirement therein that applies to an SDVO SBC is to be construed to also apply to a VIP-listed VOSB. A joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, the applicable percentage specified in paragraph (d) of this clause will be performed by the aggregate of the joint venture participants.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Precedence.</i> The VA Veterans First Contracting Program, as defined in VAAR 802.101, subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, and this clause, takes precedence over any inconsistencies between the requirements of the SBA Program for SDVO SBCs and the VA Veterans First Contracting Program.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Misrepresentation.</i> Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern, including all its principals, that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's VOSB status is subject to debarment from contracting with the Department for a period of not less than five years (see VAAR 809.406-2, Causes for Debarment).
</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
