<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_808_405_70_T48_502109115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">808.405-70</ph> Set-aside procedures for VA and GSA Federal Supply Schedules.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">To satisfy VA legislative requirements, contracting officers shall use the supplemental ordering procedures of this section when establishing a BPA or placing an order for supplies or services under this subpart as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>When market research supports set-asides.</i> Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127, contracting activities shall set-aside BPAs and orders for VIP-listed SDVOSBs or VOSBs when, based on research, the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation that two or more small business concerns owned and controlled by Veterans or owned and controlled by Veterans with service-connected disabilities will submit offers and that award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States. When the VA Rule of Two (see 802.101) is met:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The set-aside requirements as provided in 819.7006 and 819.7007 are mandatory.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The requirements in FAR 8.405-1, 8.405-2, and 8.405-3 apply, except only quotes received from verified (<i>i.e.,</i> VIP-listed) and eligible SDVOSBs or VOSBs will be considered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The eligibility requirements of 819.7003, 819.7006, and 819.7007 apply, including the requirement for offerors to be VIP-listed at the time they submit offers/quotes as well as at the time awards are made.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The contracting officer shall notify potential offerors of the unique VA verification requirements by including in the solicitation the applicable set-aside clause prescribed at 819.7011.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>When market research does not support set-asides.</i> Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8128 and to the extent that market research does not support an SDVOSB or VOSB set-aside in either FSS or the open market, the contracting activity shall give priority in the award of orders placed under this part to VIP-listed SDVOSBs/VOSBs through the use of evaluation preferences giving priority to SDVOSBs first, then to a lesser extent VOSBs, and finally to any firm that proposes to use SDVOSBs/VOSBs as subcontractors. Contracting officers must use the clause prescribed in 808.405-570(b).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>SDVOSB/VOSB eligibility requirements.</i> The SDVOSB and VOSB eligibility requirements in 819.7003 apply, including current SDVOSB and VOSB VIP-listed status at the time of submission of offer/quote and at time of award. The offeror must also represent that it meets the small business size standard for the assigned North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code as well as other small business requirements (including completing the certification found in 852.219-75 or 852.219-76.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
