<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_70_T48_50216432134">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-70</ph> VA Small Business Subcontracting Plan Minimum Requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.708, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">VA Small Business Subcontracting Plan Minimum Requirements (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) This clause does not apply to small business concerns.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) If the offeror is required to submit an individual subcontracting plan, the minimum goals for award of subcontracts to VA verified service-disabled veteran-owned small business and veteran-owned small business SDVOSB/VOSB shall be at least commensurate with the Department's annual SDVOSB/VOSB subcontracting goals.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) For a commercial plan, the minimum goals for award of subcontracts to SDVOSB/VOSB shall be at least commensurate with the Department's annual service-disabled veteran-owned small business and veteran-owned small business subcontracting goals for the total value of projected subcontracts to support the sales for the commercial plan.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) To be credited toward goal achievements, SDVOSB/VOSBs must be verified as eligible in the VA's Vendor Information Pages (VIP) database at <i>https://www.vetbiz.va.gov/vip/.</i> A contractor may reasonably rely on a subcontractor's status as shown in the VIP database as of the date of subcontract award, provided the contractor retains records of the results of the VIP database query.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall annually submit a listing of SDVOSB/VOSB (for which credit toward goal achievement is to be applied) for review by personnel in the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. Use VA Form 0896A, Report of Subcontracts to Small and Veteran-Owned Business.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's SDVOSB/VOSB status is subject to debarment for a period of not less than five years. This includes the debarment of all principals in the business.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
