<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_7003_T48_5021219713">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.7003</ph> Eligibility.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) SDVOSB/VOSB size eligibility, challenges, and appeals are governed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) regulations at 13 CFR parts 121, 125, and 134, except where directed otherwise by this part or 38 CFR part 74.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) At the time of submission of offers/quotes, and at the time of award of any contract, the offeror must represent to the contracting officer that it is a - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) SDVOSB or VOSB eligible under this subpart;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Small business concern under the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to the acquisition; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Listed as a verified SDVOSB/VOSB on the VA's Vendor Information Pages (VIP) at <i>https://www.vetbiz.va.gov/vip/</i>.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A joint venture may be considered eligible if it meets the requirements in 13 CFR part 125; and the joint venture is listed in the VIP database.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) To receive a benefit under the Veterans First Contacting Program, an otherwise eligible SDVOSB/VOSB must also meet SBA requirements at 13 CFR parts 121 and 125, including the nonmanufacturer rule requirements at 13 CFR 121.406(b) and limitations on subcontracting at 13 CFR 125.6. The nonmanufacturer rule (see 13 CFR 121.406) and the limitations on subcontracting requirements apply to all SDVOSB and VOSB set-aside and sole source contracts above the micro-purchase threshold. An offeror shall submit a certification of compliance to be considered eligible for any award under this part (see 819.7004).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's SDVOSB/VOSB status is subject to debarment from contracting with the Department for a period of not less than five years. This includes the debarment of all principals in the business. See 809.406-270.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
