<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_601_T48_50292411">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.601</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Senior Procurement Executive is granted the authority to appoint and terminate contracting officers. This authority is further delegated to the heads of the contracting activities (HCA) and others as appropriate. The SPE may also delegate authority to execute, award, and administer contracts, purchase orders, and other agreements to other VA officials, such as HCAs and contracting officers. All delegations of authority will be made in writing.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) HCAs may authorize the use of ordering officers to order supplies and services in accordance with the ordering limits identified in the contract or agreement or the specific ordering guide. Ordering officers shall be delegated in writing. The written delegation must be specific to the contract or agreement and articulate the limitations of the delegated authority. Ordering officers shall only place orders against the contract or agreement if it is awarded to a single awardee. Ordering officers may not negotiate contract terms and conditions, determine price reasonableness, or determine best value. If the contracting officer determines prior to award that ordering officers will be authorized to place orders against a contract or agreement, the contracting officer will furnish the contractor with the names of individuals delegated ordering officer authority by separate letter upon issuance of the contract.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
