<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_501_70_T48_5021219312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.501-70</ph> General principles for setting aside VA acquisitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following principles apply to VA acquisitions under this subpart:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Before setting aside or reserving an acquisition for small businesses under FAR subpart 19.5, contracting officers shall refer to 808.002 and 819.203-70 and subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> for VA SDVOSB/VOSB priorities and preferences.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Set-asides under the Veterans First Contracting Program in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> (see 819.7006 and 819.7007) have precedence over other small business set-asides authorized in FAR part 19, both above and below the simplified acquisition threshold (SAT). An SDVOSB/VOSB set-aside satisfies the legislative requirement to reserve actions below the SAT for small business.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(d), set-asides for SDVOSBs/VOSBs are mandatory whenever a contracting officer has a reasonable expectation of receiving two or more offers/quotes from eligible, capable and verified firms, and that an award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the Government. (VA Rule of Two (see 802.101))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The set-aside principles in this section apply to VA acquisitions even when a procuring activity is meeting its goals or is planning the use of an interagency agreement, Federal Supply Schedule, or a multiple award contract, including a Governmentwide contract vehicle.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The requirements in this section apply to all VA acquisitions under this subpart, including reserves, orders, and BPAs under multiple award contracts, GSA Federal Supply Schedule contracts, and Multi-Agency Contracts (MACs) awarded by another agency. A set-aside restricted to SDVOSBs/VOSBs pursuant to subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> satisfies competition requirements in FAR part 6, as well as fair opportunity requirements for orders under multiple-award contracts (see FAR 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F)).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
