<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_208_70_T48_5021643217">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.208-70</ph> Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Evaluation Factors - Orders or BPAs.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 808.405-570, insert the following clause:</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Evaluation Factors - Orders or BPAs (Nov 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) In an effort to increase contracting opportunities for Veterans, depending on the evaluation factors included in the solicitation, VA will evaluate responses received based on the schedule Contractor's VIP-verified service-disabled veteran-owned small business/veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB/VOSB) status; and/or their proposed use of VIP-listed SDVOSB/VOSB as subcontractors or teaming partners.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) To receive credit under this clause a contractor or subcontractor must be listed, at time of submission of offer/quotes and at time of award, as an eligible SDVOSB/VOSB in the Vendor Information Pages (VIP) database at <i>https://www.vetbiz.va.gov/vip/.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) A VIP-listed SDVOSB schedule holder will receive full credit, and a VIP-listed VOSB schedule holder will receive partial credit for the SDVOSB/VOSB status evaluation factor.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Offerors other than SDVOSBs or VOSBs proposing to use VIP-listed SDVOSBs/VOSBs as subcontractors/teaming partners, will receive some consideration under this evaluation factor. To receive consideration, offerors must provide in their proposals:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The name(s) and contact information of the VIP-listed SDVOSB(s)/VOSB(s) with whom they intend to team or subcontract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) A brief description of the proposed team or subcontractor(s) arrangement.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The approximate dollar value of the proposed teaming arrangements or subcontract(s).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Evidence of teaming partner/subcontractor's VIP database registration and verification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's SDVOSB/VOSB status is subject to debarment for a period of not less than five years. This includes the debarment of all principals in the business.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
