<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_72_T48_50216432133">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-72</ph> Notification of Section 8(a) Direct Award.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.811-370, paragraph (a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Notification of Section 8(a) Direct Award (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA's 8(a) Program. By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it is in good standing and that it meets all of the criteria for participation in the program in accordance with 13 CFR part 124.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made directly by the Contracting Officer to the successful 8(a) offeror. Although SBA is not identified as such in the award form, SBA is still the Prime Contractor.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) This contract is issued as a direct award between the contracting activity and the 8(a) Contractor pursuant to the Partnership Agreement (PA) between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) SBA retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and providing counseling and assistance to the 8(a) Contractor under the 8(a) program. The cognizant SBA district office is:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-1">[To be completed by the Contracting Officer at the time of award]
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting activity is responsible for administering the contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract. However, the contracting activity shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. The contracting activity shall obtain SBA's approval prior to processing any novation agreement(s). The contracting activity may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor agrees:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) To notify the Contracting Officer, simultaneous with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquishing of ownership and control.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) It will adhere to the requirements of 52.219-14, Limitations of Subcontracting and other requirements in 13 CFR part 124 and 13 CFR 125.6, as applicable
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) Any proposed joint venture involving an 8(a) Participant must be approved by SBA before contracts are awarded.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
