<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_704_70_T48_5021219511">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.704-70</ph> VA subcontracting plan requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) VA's current subcontracting goals, at a minimum, shall be inserted into all solicitations which contain FAR clause 52.219-9. To the maximum extent possible, the contracting officer shall ensure that individual subcontracting plans submitted by offerors subject to clause 852.219-70, VA Small Business Subcontracting Plan Minimum Requirements, include SDVOSB/VOSB goals that are commensurate with the annual VA SDVOSB/VOSB subcontracting goals (see 819.708).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Only firms listed as verified on the Vendor Information Pages (VIP) database (see subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>) will count towards SDVOSB and VOSB goals.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A contractor may reasonably rely on a subcontractor's status as shown in the VIP database as of the date of subcontract award, provided the contractor retains records of the results of the VIP database query.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) In furtherance of 38 U.S.C. 8127(a)(4), contractors shall submit subcontracting plan reports to OSDBU as set forth in clause 852.219-70, VA Small Business Subcontracting Plan Minimum Requirements. Unless otherwise directed by OSDBU, VA Form 0896A, Report of Subcontracts to Small and Veteran Owned Business, shall be used to submit the required information.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Subcontracting goals should be expressed as a percentage of total dollars to be subcontracted unless otherwise stated in the solicitation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) If an offeror proposes to use an SDVOSB/VOSB subcontractor for the purpose of receiving SDVOSB/VOSB evaluation factors credit pursuant to 808.405-70 or 815.304-70, the contracting officer shall ensure that the offeror, if awarded the contract, actually uses the proposed subcontractor or another SDVOSB/VOSB for that subcontract or for work of similar value, in accordance with clause 852.208-70, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Evaluation Factors - Orders or BPAs, or 852.215-71, Evaluation Factor Commitments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's SDVOSB or VOSB status is subject to debarment from contracting with the Department for a period of not less than five years. This includes the debarment of all principals in the business (see 809.406-270).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
