<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_76_T48_50216422136">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-76</ph> VA Notice of Limitations on Subcontracting - Certificate of Compliance for Supplies and Products.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.7011(c), insert the following clause. The contracting officer shall tailor the clause in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) as appropriate:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">VA Notice of Limitations on Subcontracting - Certificate of Compliance for Supplies and Products (NOV 2022)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(k)(2), the offeror certifies that - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) If awarded a contract (see FAR 2.101 definition), it will comply with the limitations on subcontracting requirement as provided in the solicitation and the resultant contract, as follows: [<i>Offeror check the appropriate box</i>]
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) □ In the case of a contract for supplies or products (other than from a non-manufacturer of such supplies), it will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not VIP-listed SDVOSBs as set forth in 852.219-73 or VOSBs as set forth in 852.219-74. Any work that a similarly situated VIP-listed subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 50% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) □ In the case of a contract for supplies from a nonmanufacturer, it will supply the product of a domestic small business manufacturer or processor, unless a waiver as described in 13 CFR 121.406(b)(5) is granted. The offeror understands that, as provided in 13 CFR 121.406(b)(7), such a waiver has no effect on requirements external to the Small Business Act, such as the Buy American Act or the Trade Agreements Act.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Manufacturer or nonmanufacturer representation and certification. [<i>Offeror fill-in - check each applicable box below. The offeror must select the applicable provision below, identifying itself as either a manufacturer or nonmanufacturer</i>]:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) □ <i>Manufacturer or producer.</i> The offeror certifies that it is the manufacturer or producer of the end item being procured, and the end item is manufactured or produced in the United States, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) □ <i>Nonmanufacturer.</i> The offeror certifies that it qualifies as a nonmanufacturer in accordance with the requirements of 13 CFR 121.406(b) and paragraph (a)(1)(ii). The offeror further certifies it meets each element below as required in order to qualify as a nonmanufacturer. [<i>Offeror fill-in - check each box below.</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">□ The offeror certifies that it does not exceed 500 employees (or 150 employees for the Information Technology Value Added Reseller exception to NAICS code 541519, which is found at 13 CFR 121.201, footnote 18).
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">□ The offeror certifies that it is primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale trade and normally sells the type of item being supplied.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">□ The offeror certifies that it will take ownership or possession of the item(s) with its personnel, equipment, or facilities in a manner consistent with industry practice.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(iii) □ The offeror certifies that it will supply the end item of a small business manufacturer, processor, or producer made in the United States, unless a waiver as provided in 13 CFR 121.406(b)(5) has been issued by SBA. [<i>Contracting Officer fill-in or removal (see 13 CFR 121.1205). This requirement must be included for a single end item. However, if SBA has issued an applicable waiver of the nonmanufacturer rule for the end item, this requirement must be removed in the final solicitation or contract.</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">or [<i>Contracting officer tailor clause to remove one or other block under subparagraph (iii).</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">□ If this is a multiple item acquisition, the offeror certifies that at least 50% of the estimated contract value is composed of items that are manufactured by small business concerns. [<i>Contracting Officer fill-in or removal. See 13 CFR 121.406(d) for multiple end items. If SBA has issued an applicable nonmanufacturer rule waiver, this requirement must be removed in the final solicitation or contract.</i>]
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(3) The offeror acknowledges that this certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States. The offeror further acknowledges that this certification is subject to Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001, and, as such, a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the offeror subject to criminal, civil, or administrative penalties, including prosecution.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(4) If VA determines that an SDVOSB/VOSB awarded a contract pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127 did not act in good faith, such SDVOSB/VOSB shall be subject to any or all of the following:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(i) Referral to the VA Suspension and Debarment Committee;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(ii) A fine under section 16(g)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 645(g)(1)); and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(iii) Prosecution for violating section 1001 of title 18.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) The offeror represents and understands that by submission of its offer and award of a contract it may be required to provide copies of documents or records to VA that VA may review to determine whether the offeror complied with the limitations on subcontracting requirement specified in the contract or to determine whether the offeror qualifies as a manufacturer or nonmanufacturer in compliance with the limitations on subcontracting requirement. Contracting officers may, at their discretion, require the contractor to demonstrate its compliance with the limitations on subcontracting at any time during performance and upon completion of a contract if the information regarding such compliance is not already available to the contracting officer. Evidence of compliance includes, but is not limited to, invoices, copies of subcontracts, or a list of the value of tasks performed.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The offeror further agrees to cooperate fully and make available any documents or records as may be required to enable VA to determine compliance. The offeror understands that failure to provide documents as requested by VA may result in remedial action as the Government deems appropriate.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Offeror completed certification/fill-in required. The formal certification must be completed, signed and returned with the offeror's bid, quotation, or proposal. The Government will not consider offers for award from offerors that do not provide the certification, and all such responses will be deemed ineligible for evaluation and award.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Certification
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">I hereby certify that if awarded the contract, [<i>insert name of offeror</i>] will comply with the limitations on subcontracting specified in this clause and in the resultant contract. I further certify that I am authorized to execute this certification on behalf of [<i>insert name of offeror</i>].
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Printed Name of Signee:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Printed Title of Signee:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Signature:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Company Name and Address:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
