<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_808_002_T48_502109014">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">808.002</ph> Priorities for use of mandatory Government sources.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Priorities.</i> Contracting activities shall satisfy requirements for supplies and services from or through the mandatory sources listed in paragraphs (a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			and (2) of this section in descending order of priority:
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Supplies.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			VA inventories including the VA supply stock program (41 CFR 101-26.704) and VA excess.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Excess from other agencies (see FAR subpart 8.1).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (see 808.603). Prior to considering award of a contract to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., contracting officers shall apply the VA Rule of Two (see 802.101) to determine whether a requirement should be awarded to veteran-owned small businesses under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127-28, by using the preferences and priorities in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. If an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB)/veteran-owned small business (VOSB) as provided in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, FPI remains a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Supplies that are on the Procurement List maintained by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, through the AbilityOne Program (FAR subpart 8.7). Supplies that are on the Procurement List but which do not meet the definition of a covered product in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			of this section are only required to be procured from a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002 if an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB after following the procedures set forth in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) Definition. As used in this paragraph (a)(1)(iv), <i>covered product</i> means a product that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List5">(1) Is included on the Procurement List as authorized under 41 U.S.C. 8503(a) (see FAR 8.703) and was included on the Procurement List on or before December 22, 2006; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List5">(2) Meets the following criteria - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List6">(<i>i</i>) Is a replacement for a product under this paragraph (a)(1)(iv);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List6">(<i>ii</i>) Is essentially the same and meeting the same requirement as the product being replaced; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List6">(<i>iii</i>) The contracting officer determines the product meets the quality standards and delivery schedule requirements of VA.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(B) Policy. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv)(C) and (D) of this section, contracting officers shall procure covered products that are on the Procurement List through the AbilityOne Program as set forth in FAR subpart 8.7. Contracting officers shall not procure products that are on the Procurement List, but which do not meet the definition of a covered product using the procedures set forth in FAR subpart 8.7, unless award cannot be made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(C) Exception for certain contracts awarded in accordance with the Veterans First Contracting Program in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. If a contract for a covered product awarded under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List5">(<i>1</i>) 
			to a VIP-listed SDVOSB or VOSB was in effect as of August 7, 2020, the requirement shall continue as an SDVOSB/VOSB set-aside in accordance with 819.7006 and 819.7007.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(D) Termination or expiration of excepted contracts. When a contract previously awarded as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(C) of this section is terminated or expires, contracting officers shall procure such covered product through the AbilityOne Program as a priority mandatory Government source (see paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(B) of this section), provided the head of the contracting activity or designee determines there is no reasonable expectation that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List5">(1) Two or more SDVOSBs/VOSBs will submit offers; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List5">(2) Award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Wholesale supply sources, such as stock programs of the General Services Administration (GSA) (see 41 CFR 101-26.3), the Defense Logistics Agency (see 41 CFR 101-26.6), the Department of Veterans Affairs (see 41 CFR 101-26.704), and military inventory control points.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Services.</i> Services that are on the Procurement List maintained by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, through the AbilityOne Program (FAR subpart 8.7). For services that are on the Procurement List, but which do not meet the definition of a covered service in paragraph (a)(2)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			of this section are only required to be procured from a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002 if an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB after following the procedures set forth in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) <i>Definition.</i> As used in this paragraph (a)(2) - 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                              <i>Covered service</i> means a service that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(<i>1</i>) Is included on the Procurement List as authorized under 41 U.S.C. 8503(a) (see FAR 8.703) and was included on the Procurement List on or before December 22, 2006; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(<i>2</i>) Meets the following criteria - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>i</i>) Is a replacement for a service under this paragraph (a)(2);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>ii</i>) Is essentially the same and meeting the same requirement as the service being replaced; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>iii</i>) The contracting officer determines the service meets the quality standards and delivery schedule requirements of VA.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) <i>Policy.</i> Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section, contracting officers shall procure covered services that are on the Procurement List through the AbilityOne Program as set forth in FAR subpart 8.7. Contracting officers shall not procure services that are on the Procurement List, but which do not meet the definition of a covered service using the procedures set forth in FAR subpart 8.7, unless award cannot be made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iii) <i>Exception for certain contracts awarded in accordance with the Veterans First Contracting Program in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                     href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>.</i> If a contract for a covered service awarded under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127(d)(1) to a VIP-listed SDVOSB or VOSB was in effect as of August 7, 2020, the requirement shall continue as an SDVOSB/VOSB set-aside in accordance with 819.7006 and 819.7007.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iv) <i>Termination or expiration of certain excepted contracts.</i> When a contract previously awarded as set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section is terminated or expires, contracting officers shall procure such covered service through the AbilityOne Program as a priority mandatory Government source (see paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section), provided the head of the contracting activity or designee determines there is no reasonable expectation that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Two or more SDVOSBs/VOSBs will submit offers; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(B) Award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Unusual and compelling urgency.</i> The contracting officer may use a source other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section when the need for supplies or services is of an unusual and compelling urgency (see FAR 6.302-2, 8.405-6, and 13.106-1 and part 806 for justification requirements).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
