<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_7011_T48_50212197111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.7011</ph> Contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer shall insert clause 852.219-73, VA Notice of Total Set-Aside for Verified Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses, or clause 852.219-74, VA Notice of Total Set-Aside for Verified Veteran-Owned Small Businesses, as applicable, in solicitations, orders and contracts that are set-aside, reserved, evaluated or awarded under this subpart. This includes sole source awards as well as multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for SDVOSBs/VOSBs as described in 808.405 and FAR 19.504(c)(1)(ii).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 852.219-75, VA Notice of Limitations on Subcontracting - Certificate of Compliance for Services and Construction, in solicitations and contracts for services and construction, including BPAs, BOAs, and orders, for acquisitions that are evaluated, set-aside, or awarded on a sole source basis under this subpart. This includes orders awarded under multiple-award contracts to SDVOSBs/VOSBs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 852.219-76, VA Notice of Limitations on Subcontracting - Certificate of Compliance for Supplies and Products, in solicitations and contracts for supplies or products, including BPAs, BOAs, and orders, for acquisitions that are to be awarded on the basis of an SDVOSB/VOSB set-aside, sole source, or an evaluation preference under this subpart. This includes orders awarded under multiple-award contracts to SDVOSBs/VOSBs. The contracting officer shall tailor clause 852.219-76, and paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of the clause, as appropriate.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
