<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_235_70_T48_50216432151">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.235-70</ph> Research Misconduct.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at 835.003-71, insert the following clause:
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Research Misconduct (DEC 2022)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor is responsible for maintaining the integrity of research performed pursuant to this contract award including the prevention, detection and remediation of research misconduct as defined in 835.001-70.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 7 business days of any research misconduct allegations received by the facility concerning this contract award.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall conduct an initial inquiry into any allegation of research misconduct. If the Contractor determines that there is sufficient evidence to proceed to an investigation, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and, unless otherwise instructed shall - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Conduct an investigation to develop a complete factual record and an examination of such record leading to either a finding of research misconduct and an identification of appropriate remedies, or a recommendation that no further action is warranted;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) When the investigation results in a research misconduct finding, ensure the matter is adjudicated by a responsible official who was not involved in the inquiry or investigation and is organizationally separated from the element which conducted the investigation. The adjudication shall include a review of the investigation record and a recommendation of appropriate corrective actions and sanctions; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) When an investigation is complete, the Contractor shall forward to the Contracting Officer a copy of the evidentiary record, the investigative report, any recommendations made to the Contractor's adjudicating official, the adjudicating official's recommendation and notification of any proposed corrective action, and the subject's written response, if any. The Contracting Officer will review the documentation to determine whether the proposed corrective action can proceed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The VA may elect to act in lieu of the Contractor in conducting an inquiry or investigation into an allegation of research misconduct if the Contracting Officer finds that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The research organization is not prepared to handle the allegation in a manner consistent with this clause and it is believed it cannot reasonably conduct the inquiry;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) VA involvement is necessary to ensure the public health, safety, and security, or to prevent harm to the public interest; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The allegation involves possible criminal misconduct.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall provide safeguards for information received and protect informants, witnesses and respondents of allegations as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Contractor shall provide safeguards to ensure that individuals may bring allegations of research misconduct made in good faith to the attention of the Contractor without suffering retribution. Safeguards include: protection against retaliation; fair and objective procedures for examining and resolving allegations; and diligence in protecting positions and reputations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall also assure the respondent that their rights are protected and that the mere filing of an allegation of research misconduct will not result in an adverse action. Safeguards include timely written notice regarding substantive allegations against them, a description of the allegations and reasonable access to any evidence submitted to support each allegation. Respondents must be given the opportunity to prepare a response to an allegation and notice of any findings of research misconduct.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Objectivity and expertise.</i> The Contractor shall select individual(s) to inquire, investigate, and adjudicate allegations of research misconduct who have appropriate expertise and have no unresolved conflict of interest. The individual(s) who conducts the adjudication must not be the same individual(s) who conducted the inquiry or investigation and must be separate organizationally from the element that conducted the inquiry or investigation.
</p>
         <p xtrc="FP">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
